You guys will come back to the course so in this lecture we're going to talk about a technique that
can dramatically help you eliminate miscommunications and to help you kind of make a final selection
when you boil it down to a short list of who you want to work with for your project.
So the short of it is that we use a technique where at the very end of the vetting process we asked
the freelancer or the freelancing firm to repeat back to us what they're doing for the project now seems
redundant.
Right.
Like you've had this discussion you have this very long good explanation.
Hopefully it's good.
Why would you want them to repeat that back to you.
Well it's actually something that's incredibly useful it's not really that redundant at all if you do
it correctly.
First of all you don't ask them to repeat back to you what your project does.
That is not particularly helpful and the reason why that's not particularly helpful is because you're
not judging the freelancer based off of how well they understand your project as a whole or what your
company does or what your company mission is.
They need to understand what exactly is the segment that they're working on and what are the objectives
they need to get done.
And a little bit of the why.
So what you want them to do is to repeat back to you a summary of what it is that they're working on.
Or simply ask them what is it that they are building now that's important because they don't need to
understand the entirety of the system if they're only building one section.
They just need to understand the section.
The point here though is that we're going to see how again how thoughtful how articulate they are when
they repeat it back and a lot of times you can essentially find some mines that would have been a problem
later.
A lot of times you can have freelancers who are you know A-okay the entire vetting process and at the
very end of the process you ask and them repeat the project back and you find out they have absolutely
no idea what they're doing.
Or they have some very core misunderstandings about what your project is or what your product does.
Now sometimes these are pretty innocuous things that aren't a huge deal but you have the opportunity
to correct and sometimes they're absolutely huge.
They're building something and they have no idea what it is or they're planning to build it backwards
so well you can do is you can correct them if you want to stick with this freelancer.
You can also get a final indication of whether or not you both understand what is going to happen and
what you both expect out of it.
Now in general if you're trying to outsource to say South Asia.
Lower your expectations for how good their prose is going to be as long as they understand the gist
of it.
That's what you should be going for.
So keep in mind it's all relative to your project and where you're trying to outsource to.
But in general this is very helpful when you're down in the late two or three freelancers or even one
and you just want to be 100 percent sure that you're on the same page.
Just ask them hey.
Repeat back to me what it is that you're building what it is that this project is supposed to do now
how you actually do it is honestly the last thing I'd do.
Right before I hire them is I just ask them Hey I just want to make sure that we don't have any misunderstandings.
Do you mind just letting me know what exactly your work what you're going to work on.
Or can you give me a summary of the project.
Now I might sound a little bit weird but what you can do at the very end of that is you can give them
a carrot and say you know I just want to make sure that you know there's no Miss understanding's as
soon as we get through this we'll be ready to start.
Or something like that so they understand that it's kind of like the final hurdle and you just want
to make sure that this last potential issue is out of the way.
OK guys let me know in your own experiments how all of this works.
You post in the group discussion if it's an issue or you have some suggestions otherwise.
See in the next lecture.